Reproducible Science Hackathon: Curriculum & Workflow Development
=================================================================

_Goal_: Develop a short course curriculum for tools, resources, and practices for reproducible science

_Location_: NESCent, Durham, NC

_Dates and times_: December 8 - 11, 2014; 9 am - 5 pm each day

_To apply_: http://goo.gl/GzS118 ; deadline October 10, 2014. Successful applicants will be notified by October 17th.

Synopsis
--------

Making science more reproducible has enormous potential to accelerate
scientific advance, including for practicing individuals. Despite
this, the tools and approaches that are already available are rarely
taught. To address this, we are organizing a 4-day workshop aimed at
developing, and later teaching, a short course curriculum for tools,
resources, and practices for reproducible science. A part of the
workshop will also be devoted to addressing gaps that hinder the broad
adoption of such resources. The event will be held December 8-11,
2014, in Durham, NC, at the National Evolutionary Synthesis Center
(NESCent). We aim to assemble a diverse and interdisciplinary group of
participants, and invite those interested to apply by Oct 10 at
http://goo.gl/GzS118.

Motivation
----------

As science becomes increasingly more data and computation intensive,
maintaining the ability to build on our own or other’s prior work
requires that the process that takes data and other inputs all the way
to the results presented in a paper is documented and made available
in full detail. The concept of reproducible science means that someone
else should either be able to obtain the same results given all the
documented inputs and the published instructions for processing them,
or if not, the reasons why should be apparent from comparing the
executed processing steps to the documented ones.

Provided the necessary domain and technical knowledge, and the
computational and other resources are available, reproducible science
is verifiable and repeatable, two cornerstones of the scientific
process. Reproducible science is also becoming a requirement of
journals and granting agencies. Aside from obliging journal and funder
expectations, the practices that make science reproducible can allow
others, including one’s future self, to repeat and extend analyses,
for example with new data, new tools, or parameter modifications. That
is, making one’s science more reproducible stands to accelerate one’s
own research, as well as the ability of science as a whole to build on
it.  Despite this potential, the tools and best practices that allow
scientists to reap the benefits of more reproducible science are only
rarely taught, and although many tools and resources already exist,
they are scattered and many scientists remain unaware of them.

Event description
-----------------

To address this, we are organizing a 4-day workshop to develop a short
course curriculum for tools, resources, and practices for reproducible
science. The goal of this workshop is to identify and subsequently
address the teaching needs and technological gaps that hinder the
broad adoption of reproducible science in biology. The material
developed during this workshop will subsequently be taught at a
two-day training workshop.

We aim to assemble a diverse and interdisciplinary group of
scientists, educators, and developers, encompassing various levels of
experience and a broad set of skills. This includes participants who
are familiar with, or even involved with developing tools and
technologies under the reproducible science rubric, but also includes
scientists and other people enthusiastic to learn more about
reproducible science and who are interested in helping to shape the
curriculum.

Logistics
---------

Applications are due October 13, 2014. Travel support is provided.
Women and underrepresented minorities are especially encouraged to
apply.

If you have any questions, feel free to contact anyone of the
organizing committee.

Organizing committee

* Karen Cranston, National Evolutionary Synthesis Center, karen.cranston@nescent.org 
* Hilmar Lapp, National Evolutionary Synthesis Center
* Ciera Martinez, University of California Davis
* François Michonneau, University of Florida
* Matt Pennell, University of Idaho
* Tracy Teal, Michigan State University
